Empathy came naturally to me. My father was a elemantary teacher and spending time around him and his colleagues and watching their interactions showed me how I wanted to interact when I grew up. Naturally I went into youth developement and thought I had a natural gift, only to find out that you need to continue to practice to become more empathetic and that watching others helped me become a better leader with my staff and campers over the years. I would like to think that my ability to be empathic is top notch and yet I know I have a long way to go to be good. 
When I worked for Crested Butte Mountain Resort I was put on a team to work with our partners to create a more "user friendly" expereince for our guests. What I found was two engineers that had developed some very cool new toys that they thought could be helpful, but didn't work in our situation. There was a divide happening between what we needed and what they wanted to provide and it all could have been avoided by asking better questions and listening. 
In team settings you have to leave your ego at the door and allow everyone to have a voice and give feedback. we can all put blinders on and miss what someone else is seeing from another perspective. When we stop and talk through a problem their is typically a better solution with multiple avenues to take. the team as a whole can take a little bit from everyone to make it better. 
About 4 years ago I was working in a Sales job here in Denver when a colleague who I was not entirely friendly with was even shorter with me than usual. That morning was spent with terse comments made in my direction with no real reason and everyone could tell that this colleague was "in a mood". I decided that it was time to find out what was going on and if I could help and I started a conversation about their territory, the significant other, anything to try and figure out what they were in such a intersting mood. As it turns out, this colleagues mom was diagnosed with cancer and they were having a hard time dealing with the emotions. At the same time my mom was in her final months. We both kept this from our colleagues as we didn't want this to affect our work, and yet it was. I sat their and listened for a good hour over coffee at Union Station and let them talk through everything before I let them know I was going through something similar. This simple act of asking questions not only changed their attitude, it gave us both a support system when we needed to vent so we wouldnt take it out on our colleagues. 
When I am busy. When I feel my time is more important. This is when I have to be self-aware enough to stop and ask if I can help. At camp days felt like weeks and every day was a sprint and there was never enough time, we always felt like we were running out of daylight. It was there that we set up rules to make sure that nothing was ever more important than another person. no project. If it looked like someone needed five minutes, we took five minutes to make sure we were there to support them. Now this didn't always happen, and I tried to carry this over to my other jobs. I wish I could practice this more. 
