
1. - "I don't know" - As I get older it has become easier to say I don't know, becuase when I state that it starts a conversation to find answers. In so many jobs you have to "fake it till you make it" In sales that is a main part of your role. However, I became a more successful salesperson when I answered "I don't know let me find the answer". This built trust with my clients. It also built trust with colleagues that I wasnt giving them a line. 

2. Take respoinsibilty for my mistakes - As a summer camp director we were at full speed for such a short period that you had to gain trust quickly and if you pushed blame onto someone else you lost that trust. Jumping on the granade allowed us to talk about the mistake, diffuse the situation and move on and solve the problem at hand. 

3. skip alot of meetings - rarely have I been to a meeting or led a meeting that couldn't have been 30-45 minutes faster and still hit the same points. Companies are finding easier and more effective ways to communicate with their staff. If I was in the middle of a project or a call with a client at previous jobs and knew this was more important than the meeting. I would always skip. sometimes by disrupting a thought process you miss an opportunity to think through the problem.


StrengthsFinder - 
1) I have taken stregthsfinder several times and it always teaches me something new about myself. I think of it as a horoscope. it is a good guide for me to see how people view me, and how i can work with different personalities. It has always been helpful
2) Woo - always shows up on my strengthsfinder. but in life - My ability to talk to anyone will always be a positive. My abiloity to see issues and to work in a group to create solutions. Working as a summer camp director for 10 years led me to dealing with group dynamics and communicaiton that many folks outside of teachers learn. I dont know or think I am good or great at any of my skills. I am constantly working to get better and know that if I dont use them I get rusty. That process is what I will bring to coding. Knowing that I have to keep working. Keep grinding to get better and knowing I will make plenty of mistake along the way. 
3) I want to pair my now previous life of sales/account management into a new career in software developement. I want to learn how to code and how the developement process works and I progress in my career look into product and project management as a way forward. before i put the cart infront of the horse i understand that i need to understand the language of coding so that I can communicate to clients who may not understand the development world. 
